We edit the viewer X store and we're dispatching the posts we loaded to it.
No there's nothing wrong with that.
But we can save some code.
Let's remove the creative method instead of using async data here.
We can use the fetch method now fetches all the directly added to the component object and just like
async data it's a special method added by next just like async data.
It runs ever on the server for the first load or on the client so it behaves exactly like async data.
And that even gets the same context object just like async data it receives the Context object and we
have to return a promise here where we then resolve or reject and provide then where we return the data
we actually want to merge with data.
However this difference now we don't return data here.
We can still catch any errors sent showed a page if they occur but the last here we simply dispatch
something to our story and we can access the store on the context object.
There is a stored property we can access data and async data to right away.
And here we could then call commit and commit set posts to simply set posts equal to data loaded posts.
Remember Dator is just the object which is resolved here and that object has a loaded post property.
So now we're committing this to the store to get the pre configured and pre-filled store back with our
page.
If we load this for the first time or to execute a logic on the client if we got there by clicking around
if I now save this and reload this page we get an error.
Now that makes sense because now the issue we have is we call fetch to initialize our store but in the
next hour you follow the post folder.
We actually tried to get loaded posts on the data of this component which doesn't exist anymore we just
populate the store.
Well of course what we can do is we can get data from our store by adding the computer property here
to always be informed about updates and loaded posts here.
As a function and return this store Katter's loaded posts referring to our loaded post scatter we find
here in our index chase file in the store folder.
Now that will have set up a normal connection to getters as you normally do it in any view X app and
we can of course access this dollar sign store here because here we're running on the client again.
This is not inside the fetch or data method.
With that if we reload the page here we don't have an error.
But what we do see is if we inspect view in the new dev tools here that we start with this state.
Now the result is pretty close to what we had before was created but fetches a nice alternative to not
even use async data.
If you are not really interested in merging the data with your component data anyways.
But if you just want to repopulate the store no pre initializing the store like this is nice but still
we would have to manually implement checks on all our pages to see whether we're already having that
data in the store or if you are loading the page for the first time.
If we need to perform the fetch and we can do this we can add a check if context store state loaded
posts length is greater than zero.
Then we could just skip this year and instantly return NULL here.
For example if I do this with 0 to get this result even for the first load then we just have to get
back the page.
Of course with no data initialized.
If Why change it to be like this then we get the normal behavior where we execute code and populate
our store but we would have to implement that entire logic to whole fecche logic into any page where
we fetch posts.
So this might not be ideal.
Instead there is a special method we can add to our view x store which will be executed one time only
on the server and that is the next server in that method.
Now how does that work.
You add it to actions it's a special action that will be executed that will be dispatched automatically
by you x.
So here I add.
Next server in it.
Make sure you don't add any typos and this action again will be dispatched by next year if you still
get your normal US context the payload is a special window the payload always is to context.
So to say in context you get an fetch and a sync data.
Now with that you could analyze your route parens and stuff like that but what you can also do of course
is you can always initialize your store with the loaded posts for example.
So here you could grab the entire code you have and fetch including the return statement and get rid
of that and of all the code here actually just leave components and computed in your and put it into
index.
Yes just the return promise.
You need to return to promise.
That is a key thing to do that is required.
The next server in it to find out how long your async action is taking if you are not performing an
async action.
You can immediately execute whole code you want to execute and you don't have to return.
But if you are executing async action you have to wrap it in a promise and return that promise and then
here if you don't rissoles like this instead you can of course and you should of course still resolve
but you will just call results like this to basically mark that you're done.
The more important part is that you can now call commit on the view x context committees set posts method
and simply pass the posts here as an argument so simply pass the array not an object.
So remove the loaded post property into object commit just the array as you expect that in the mutation
we assign an array of posts here.
So we just call commit to year 1 C..
Time out is done and then we resolve their offer to indicate that we're done here I should close my
parentheses
with that you close to it all correctly can load our page again.
And if we inspect to Storer we see we start with loaded posts and this has one big effect.
They go back to the starting page that takes we still have async data there.
But if I go back to the blog it loads instantly because it's now fetching that from the store because
we initialize our store with values from the server let's say and in the post slyest we have only Synchronoss
code where we use a computer property.
So we only have to wait for disk load once instead of on every page.
And now we can simply add this pattern here to our next of you fall.
Instead of using async data here we can get rid of it entirely and simply add computed and stat and
then there weps that should be no object though add computed and in there have loaded posts as a method
which will be treated as a computed property where we return this store gatherer's scatters loaded posts.
And if we do that and also get rid of create that down there go back to the main page and that now happens
faster.
And if we click on a single post we still load it for async data because that component might need some
extra data and it does for a given single post which we still fetched from the server let's say but
the general data we work with a lot has been fetched only one time and added to the story.
And that is really what I want you to take away.
You can work with the store as you know it you can dispatch commit.
You can set up your getters and listen to them with computer properties just as in any area.
But if you need it you can also add this special next server in a method here dis action here to be
precise which will be dispatched by next automatically and which initializes your store so that you
fetch some data you work with a lot only once so that you can use it and all the components and don't
constantly have to reach out to the server.
And if you don't get use cases where you need specific data well you can still use async data for dead.
So that was a.
But it's really important to know these things and the different tools you have load data into the store
or loaded on a per page basis or mix both as needed.
You got a lot of tools to be efficient just use them.